# A Sentence A Day (SAD)

Writing sentences. Day by Day. Trying to make something. Piece by Piece. It is not actually SAD. Hopefully it will be HAPPY -- or at least HOPEFUL/HELPFUL.

20190101 How to move towards a more sustainable graphic design practice? 20190102 My GNU/Linux experiments are one such effort. 20190103 Reusing old design ideas another. 20190104 Now, is spending hundreds of hours trying to learn things about GNU/Linux sustainable though (the general open sourcery as a whole)? 20190105 The GNU ecosystem is fully into reusing old ideas -- just reusing ideas period. 20190106 Free software allows for creative waste to become creative food. 20190107 Does that make free software as a whole more sustainable? 20190108 The ecosystem for libre tools is more like a natural ecosystem: you see darwinian style evolution; variations due to minor differences of philosophy or habit or desire. 20190109 If the way our tools are built and subsequently evolve is more like nature; more like natural cycles/processes; does that make those tools then fit into our lives, society, culture -- whatever -- in more "natural" ways? does it allow for more natural ways of using them? (natural meaning finding harmony with nature; being more "a part" of nature rather than "apart" from nature... (something about Eli Heuer's open source over estimates your skills, so you have to learn and grow and try harder? -- <https://twitter.com/eliheuer/status/1081627442220068865>)) 20190109 Github is my new dropbox. but should I switch to gitlab? that's open... oh, should I run my own gitlab server??? 20190110 How about the ideals? 20190111 Do the ideals of F/LOSS align better with the ideals of sustainability? 20190112 Does "all humans and other life should flourish" fit into F/LOSS as an ideal? 20190113 Or rather, does F/LOSS help achieve flourishing more than proprietary software might/will? 20190114 What I am really trying to suss out here is where and how do my interests in Design serving a flourishing/wellfare of all life agenda and my interests in F/LOSS design overlap; how are they additive; how do they serve each other. 20190115 The other direction this goes, is why do any of this at all? why design? why compute? why care about liberated tools? why be a designer -- why am I not just a farmer or garbage collector or something? 20190115 Okay, reasoning: our current capitalist constructs DO NOT improve the wellfare of all life; the origins of F/LOSS are also anti-capitalist -- or at least anti valuing making a buck over being good to your neighbor -- so, if you have to use software, F/LOSS is more likely to AID you in helping all life flourish than proprietary/non-free softwares. 20190116 Is this provable? or measureable? 20190117 Waste = Food; what other ways can I find that this is true for creative kinds of waste? As I mentioned before I think that in some ways F/LOSS improves upon this equation. 20190118 The philosophical issue I run into here is, well, what exactly is my goal as a designer? what do I want to design? is desinging solving any of the problems I am pointing out -- did it just create them in the first place? 20190118 The Libre Designer; The Sustainabilitist Designer; Are the tools the connection? are these things the same? It feels like a synergy... 20190119 Is this also how vernacular patterns/building come into the picture -- are free/libre open models the new vernacular (is that how I make my designing today more like the way say a Cape Cod house comes together?) 20190120 It is good to experience other spaces, other realms, where what graphic design is used for is different (and how graphic design looks is understood differently). 20190120 Dunne and Raby propose that design should explore activities and outcomes that question and challenge status quo industrial agendas--however! for the most part the designers doing this are still using status quo tools! Sustainability (at least the flourishing variety I am interested in) is NOT the current status quo; so if I am challenging the assumptions of contemporary design and capitalist consumerism, then I need non-capitalist consumerist tools to do that with--enter F/LOSS. 20190121 F/LOSS seems to be hard for traditional designers to break into though. Why? 20190122 Web focused designers HAVE for the most part embraced the open source ideal -- work is on github, there are at least many designers using things like bootstrap, react, etc. And plenty, though less, commiting to projects and making their own new ones (jxnblk & mrmrs are good examples). 20190123 Even more traditionally print designers; or just designers deisgning for the web even if they aren't capable of building/programming are aware of plenty of open projects and open source fonts (google fonts) -- so what's the hard part to migrate designing tools??? 20190124 An issue may just be that while the web is built on open standards, our traditional desktop computers have not. So, while you might be used to thinking in SVG and JS and HTML and CSS and Wordpress and Drupal and React and Node and whatever other F/LOS kinds of things in a web realm; you aren't necessarily thiknking about making those things w/ free/open tools. 20190125 Creating graphics has for the most part been a proprietary environment -- one had to buy fonts, or at least access to the fonts (you had to buy a case of type; you had to buy sheets of letraset; you had to pay a phototypesetter for the type you wanted set and they bought their font photo-negatives from the foundries, etc.), and when the creation of layouts moved to the computer... hmmm, losing my train of thought here. 20190125 Generalization: designers are tool users not tool makers? so we use what we see is available; when we're shown the Adobe stuff and see that mostly the rest of our colleagues are using it; it makes sense to do that -- the file formats don't port, so we have not much choice. 20190126 But is that it? we get told we're supposed to use something -- it is "professional" -- and so everyone then just blindly follows along? A giant conspiracy that education and the marketplace and everyone making anything is complicit in? Is it a chicken and the egg situation? what came first, the adobe creative suite or the designer? Employers of designers ask for students to come to them knowing how to use things like illustrator and indesign and photoshop and after effects. They don't ask for students to be good at drawing vector paths. Anyway, so there's a list of software industry says a designer needs to know. And then academia says, oh well, those are tools we use to make things too, we can teach them to use those. 20190127 What is more important -- being skilled at drawing; or being skilled at using illustrator? Being skilled at drawing with vector tools? or being skilled at drawing period? What even am I asking myself? Do I want to be able to draw photo realistic tigers or do I want to be able to use visuals to explain my ideas, and help "see" and understand the world around me? Do we need simpler, more atomized tools? Would a lesser tool than illustrator be useful -- one that only has vector drawing and nothing else -- I can make points, I can affect curves. 20190128 I'm ranting a bit. These are more "questions a day" rather than sentences a day. Do I teach using the Adobe Creative Cloud because it is all I know; do I use it because its really the "best"? Is Adobe CC the only professional option for my designing? What happens if I stop? if I offer students alternatives? if I tell my clients I use something else/something different now?
